examples/README.md, before:

# Apache Ignite 3 Examples

## Overview

This project contains code examples for Apache Ignite 3.

Examples are shipped as a separate Gradle module, so to start running you simply need
to import the provided `build.gradle` file into your favourite IDE.

The following examples are included:
* `RecordViewExample` - demonstrates the usage of the `org.apache.ignite.table.RecordView` API
* `KeyValueViewExample` - demonstrates the usage of the `org.apache.ignite.table.KeyValueView` API
* `SqlJdbcExample` - demonstrates the usage of the Apache Ignite JDBC driver.
* `SqlApiExample` - demonstrates the usage of the Java API for SQL.
* `VolatilePageMemoryStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the PageMemory storage engine configured with an in-memory data region.
* `PersistentPageMemoryStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the PageMemory storage engine configured with a persistent data region.
* `RocksDbStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the RocksDB storage engine.

## Running examples with an Ignite node within a Docker container

1. Open the Ignite project in your IDE of choice.

2. Prepare an environment variable:
```shell
IGNITE_SOURCES=/path/to/ignite3-sources
```

3. Start an Ignite node:
```shell
docker run --name ignite3-node -d --rm -p 10300:10300 -p 10800:10800 \
  -v $IGNITE_SOURCES/examples/config/ignite-config.conf:/opt/ignite/etc/ignite-config.conf apacheignite/ignite3
```

4. Get the IP address of the node:
```shell
NODE_IP_ADDRESS=$(docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' ignite3-node)
```

5. Initialize the node:
```shell
docker run -it apacheignite/ignite3 cli cluster init --url http://$NODE_IP_ADDRESS:10300 --name myCluster1 \
  --cluster-management-group defaultNode --metastorage-group defaultNode
```

6. Run the example via IDE.

7. Stop the Ignite node:
```shell
docker stop ignite3-node
```

## Running examples with an Ignite node started natively

1. Open the Ignite project in your IDE of choice.

2. Download the Ignite ZIP package including the database and CLI parts. Alternatively, build these parts from the Ignite sources 
(see [DEVNOTES.md](../DEVNOTES.md)). Unpack.

3. Prepare the environment variables. `IGNITE_HOME` is used in the Ignite startup. Therefore, you need to export it:
```shell
export IGNITE_HOME=/path/to/ignite3-db-VERSION
IGNITE_CLI_HOME=/path/to/ignite3-cli-VERSION
IGNITE_SOURCES=/path/to/ignite3-sources
```

4. Override the default configuration file:
```shell
echo "CONFIG_FILE=$IGNITE_SOURCES/examples/config/ignite-config.conf" >> $IGNITE_HOME/etc/vars.env
```

5. Start an Ignite node using the startup script from the database part:
```shell
$IGNITE_HOME/bin/ignite3db start
```

6. Initialize the cluster using Ignite CLI from the CLI part:
```shell
$IGNITE_CLI_HOME/bin/ignite3 cluster init --name myCluster1 --metastorage-group defaultNode --cluster-management-group defaultNode
```

7. Run the example from the IDE.

8. Stop the Ignite node using the startup script:
```shell
$IGNITE_HOME/bin/ignite3db stop
```

Commit message:

add an instriction step on how to build an Ignite image

examples/README.md, after:

# Apache Ignite 3 Examples

## Overview

This project contains code examples for Apache Ignite 3.

Examples are shipped as a separate Gradle module, so to start running you simply need
to import the provided `build.gradle` file into your favourite IDE.

The following examples are included:
* `RecordViewExample` - demonstrates the usage of the `org.apache.ignite.table.RecordView` API
* `KeyValueViewExample` - demonstrates the usage of the `org.apache.ignite.table.KeyValueView` API
* `SqlJdbcExample` - demonstrates the usage of the Apache Ignite JDBC driver.
* `SqlApiExample` - demonstrates the usage of the Java API for SQL.
* `VolatilePageMemoryStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the PageMemory storage engine configured with an in-memory data region.
* `PersistentPageMemoryStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the PageMemory storage engine configured with a persistent data region.
* `RocksDbStorageExample` - demonstrates the usage of the RocksDB storage engine.

## Running examples with an Ignite node within a Docker container

1. Open the Ignite project in your IDE of choice.

2. Prepare an environment variable:
```shell
IGNITE_SOURCES=/path/to/ignite3-sources
```

3. Build the Ignite Docker image. As a result the `apacheignite/ignite3` image will be built and loaded into the Docker Engine:
```shell
cd $IGNITE_SOURCES; ./gradlew clean docker
```

4. Start an Ignite node:
```shell
docker run --name ignite3-node -d --rm -p 10300:10300 -p 10800:10800 \
  -v $IGNITE_SOURCES/examples/config/ignite-config.conf:/opt/ignite/etc/ignite-config.conf apacheignite/ignite3
```

5. Get the IP address of the node:
```shell
NODE_IP_ADDRESS=$(docker inspect --format='{{range .NetworkSettings.Networks}}{{.IPAddress}}{{end}}' ignite3-node)
```

6. Initialize the node:
```shell
docker run -it apacheignite/ignite3 cli cluster init --url http://$NODE_IP_ADDRESS:10300 --name myCluster1 \
  --cluster-management-group defaultNode --metastorage-group defaultNode
```

7. Run the example via IDE.

8. Stop the Ignite node:
```shell
docker stop ignite3-node
```

## Running examples with an Ignite node started natively

1. Open the Ignite project in your IDE of choice.

2. Download the Ignite ZIP package including the database and CLI parts. Alternatively, build these parts from the Ignite sources 
(see [DEVNOTES.md](../DEVNOTES.md)). Unpack.

3. Prepare the environment variables. `IGNITE_HOME` is used in the Ignite startup. Therefore, you need to export it:
```shell
export IGNITE_HOME=/path/to/ignite3-db-VERSION
IGNITE_CLI_HOME=/path/to/ignite3-cli-VERSION
IGNITE_SOURCES=/path/to/ignite3-sources
```

4. Override the default configuration file:
```shell
echo "CONFIG_FILE=$IGNITE_SOURCES/examples/config/ignite-config.conf" >> $IGNITE_HOME/etc/vars.env
```

5. Start an Ignite node using the startup script from the database part:
```shell
$IGNITE_HOME/bin/ignite3db start
```

6. Initialize the cluster using Ignite CLI from the CLI part:
```shell
$IGNITE_CLI_HOME/bin/ignite3 cluster init --name myCluster1 --metastorage-group defaultNode --cluster-management-group defaultNode
```

7. Run the example from the IDE.

8. Stop the Ignite node using the startup script:
```shell
$IGNITE_HOME/bin/ignite3db stop
```
