docs/_docs/installation/deb-rpm.adoc, before:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
= Installing Using DEP and RPM Package

Apache Ignite can be installed from the official link:https://www.apache.org/dist/ignite/rpm[RPM] or link:https://www.apache.org/dist/ignite/deb[DEB] repositories.

== Installing Deb Package

//Configure the repository:

//[source, shell]
//----
//sudo apt update
//sudo apt install gnupg ca-certificates --no-install-recommends -y
//----


//[source, shell]
//----
//sudo bash -c 'cat <<EOF > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ignite.list
//deb http://apache.org/dist/ignite/deb/ apache-ignite main
//EOF'
//sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 0EE62FB37A00258D
//sudo apt update
//sudo apt install apache-ignite --no-install-recommends
//----

. Download the archive with the Ignite CLI tool:
+
[tabs]
--
tab:deb[]
[source,shell]
----
curl -L "https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=ignite/3.0.0-beta1/ignite3-cli_3.0.0~beta1_all.deb" -o ignite3-cli_3.0.0-beta1_all.deb

curl -L "https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=ignite/3.0.0-beta1/ignite3-db_3.0.0~beta1_all.deb" -o ignite3-db_3.0.0-beta1_all.deb
----

tab:RPM[]
[source,shell]
----
curl -L "https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=ignite/3.0.0-beta1/ignite3-cli-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm" -o ignite3-cli-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm

curl -L "https://www.apache.org/dyn/mirrors/mirrors.cgi?action=download&filename=ignite/3.0.0-beta1/ignite3-db-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm" -o ignite3-db-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm
----
--



Install the Apache Ignite 3 package:

[tabs]
--
tab:deb[]
[source, shell]
----
sudo apt install ignite3-db_3.0.0-beta1_all.deb --no-install-recommends
sudo apt install ignite3-cli_3.0.0-beta1_all.deb --no-install-recommends
----

tab:RPM[]
[source,shell]
----
sudo rpm -i ignite3-db-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm

sudo rpm -i ignite3-cli-3.0.0~beta1.noarch.rpm
----

--

Commit message:

IGNITE-22136 Updated Apache Ignite 3 doc with new features (#3678)

docs/_docs/installation/deb-rpm.adoc, after:

// Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
// contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
// this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
// The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
// (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
// the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
//
// http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
//
// Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
// distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
// WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
// See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
// limitations under the License.
= Installing Using DEP and RPM Package

Ignite can be installed from the official link:https://www.apache.org/dist/ignite/rpm[RPM] or link:https://www.apache.org/dist/ignite/deb[DEB] repositories.

== Installing Deb Package

//Configure the repository:

//[source, shell]
//----
//sudo apt update
//sudo apt install gnupg ca-certificates --no-install-recommends -y
//----


//[source, shell]
//----
//sudo bash -c 'cat <<EOF > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ignite.list
//deb http://apache.org/dist/ignite/deb/ apache-ignite main
//EOF'
//sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 0EE62FB37A00258D
//sudo apt update
//sudo apt install apache-ignite --no-install-recommends
//----

Install the Ignite 3 package:

[tabs]
--
tab:deb[]
[source, shell]
----
sudo apt install ignite-db-3.0.0-beta2.deb --no-install-recommends
sudo apt install ignite-cli-3.0.0-beta2.deb --no-install-recommends
----

tab:RPM[]
[source,shell]
----
sudo rpm -i ignite-db-3.0.0-beta2.noarch.rpm

sudo rpm -i ignite-cli-3.0.0-beta2.noarch.rpm
----

--

== Next Steps

With the Ignite installed, you can proceed with the link:quick-start/getting-started-guide[Getting Started] or link:developers-guide/table-api[use the available APIs] immediately.
